# Oral rendering *“Great inventors”*

The article I’m going to speak about is taken from ukessays.com. The headline of the article is “Tim Berners Lee: The Inventor Of The Internet”. The author starts by telling the reader that Tim Berners Lee, thanks to his invention of the World Wide Web, can rightly be considered one of the few people whose influence on the media and communications is difficult to underestimate. After that, the author tells the story of the creation of the Internet. The idea of creating a decentralized network was born at CERN in the 80s, first as a local project and only after, in 1991, entering the world arena. Further, the author proceeds to consider the consequences of the creation of the Internet, in particular, social networks.  “Clearly”, – author says, –  “Tim Berners-Lee’s invention allowed the social networking sites to form and they evolved the way that people communicate.” Further, it is said that the Internet has completely changed the way we receive information and news in the modern world. For example, today only 17% of people receive their news from newspapers, but even 30 years ago everything was completely different. Finally, the author says that the Internet has also brought rather controversial things to this world. As an example, the Internet provides opportunities for censoring obscene material, but such opportunities can be used to create something like the Great Firewall of China. At the end of the article the author sums it all up by saying that Tim Berners-Lee has impacted the world of mass media in many ways, positive and negative.